\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename initram-erasure.info
@settitle initram-erasure
@afourpaper
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@finalout
@c %**end of header


@dircategory Security
@direntry
* initram-erasure: (initram-erasure).  Dead pony's protocol for disk erasure
@end direntry


@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Mattias Andrée

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top initram-erasure -- Dead pony's protocol for disk erasure
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title initram-erasure
@subtitle Dead pony's protocol for disk erasure
@author by Mattias Andrée (maandree)

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@page
@*@*
@center `Take that you ruffian!'
@end titlepage

@contents



@menu
* Overview::                        Brief overview of @command{initram-erasure}.
* Setting up::                      Setting up @command{initram-erasure}.
* Precautions::                     Precautions your may want to take.
* GNU Free Documentation License::  Copying and sharing this manual.
@end menu



@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@command{initram-erasure} is a dead pony's protocol for erasing your disks
in case somepony stills you computer. It us pretty much worthless if the
thief wants you documents and excepts that the computer is encrypted as that
pony would just boot her own installation and hit you with a 5 dollar wrench.

But if the thief does not except it she would probably not take precautions
and computer would erase the drives when started.

@command{initram-erasure} has an early hook that is totally quite erase
the drives simultaneously in parallel once by overriding it with NUL bytes,
this is the fasted method for erasing a drive. After this it taunts the
user that she fell for the trapm, and then continues by 9 times filling
the drives with random bytes instread of zero bytes. This totals in 10 overrides,
which takes quite some time, just one override times too long. The reason
for stopping at 10 overrides is for not wearing out the drives in case it
was started accidentally when you where not there.



@node Setting up
@chapter Setting up

To use @command{initram-erasure}, add @code{erasure} to @code{HOOKS} for
@command{initram}. Configure your boot options in your bootmanager to
add the option @command{edev=/dev/sda,/dev/sdb} to the kernel command line
to erase the disks @file{/dev/sda} and @file{/dev/sdb}.



@node Precautions
@chapter Precautions

Because computer can fail and restart by themself or restart if the power
returns if is recommended to only use @command{initram-erasure} on portable
computers, but you could also just remove the auto start from your bootmanager.
But since accidentally runing this premanently removes your data you really
should not have int on your stationary computer store everyting you have
only your portable computers on your stationary computer.

To make sure that you do not miss to choose to start without
@command{initram-erasure} your should configure your bootmanager to give
you plenty of time and perhaps set the first boot option to boot the
bootmanager itself so you remind yourself to disable @command{initram-erasure}
and not just hit enter and erase your drives by reflex.




@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texinfo

@bye

